Thanks everyone for joining. I think we
can start now.
Welcome to build on Canton Hackathon.
For you that don't know, we launched on
Monday and today is the first deeper
technical session for builders.
Just a quick reminder, your next key
date
is the project creation which needs to
be done by Sunday 21st of June. Okay?
After that, we have the Canton ecosystem
overview on Monday at 2:00 p.m.
So, join us again for that.
And please keep checking the Discord and
the platform page for updates and drop
the question
there. The Canton or ask for me code
team will be around that to help. Okay?
So, today as a speaker we have Jatin who
is the developer relations manager at
the Canton Foundation.
And yeah, he will be going a little bit
deeper into the Canton stock, the
architecture, and the practical pieces
that should help with the project
building as well. So, without further
ado, I will pass over to Jatin and yeah,
here we go.
>> Sounds good. Sounds good. Hey everybody,
so good to be in the workshop and and I
know that we have just getting started
to build and only like a few days back
only we had our first launch event. But,
this is just me giving you a quick TLDR
overview of the entire like Canton
network,
Daml, how it looks and likes, a workshop
on how can you use C-Port which will be
the tool that I would generally want all
of you to use to deploy, to write your
first Daml smart contract, deploy on the
validator that you would want to be.
But, yeah, let's let's get started, I
guess. I'm just going to share my screen
and Dwight, let me know once my screen
is sharing successfully.
>> Can you see my screen?
>> Yes, we can see your screen. That's all
good.
>> Okay, that's that's a good news then.
So, okay, let's see. I think everything
works. Good to know.
So, hey everybody. I am going to be
first using the slides to explain you
some of the most foundational and basic
concepts out there
about Canton network or DLT itself. And
after that, we can move on to actually
write and after that, how to deploy
using Cport. So, let's move ahead.
So, as you would see, Canton network
itself is a distinctionally very
different blockchain than you would
compare to any other else like So, for
us, the whole architecture looks very
very very different when you compare to
somebody else out there in the
blockchain space. So, instead of a
single global ledger, what we have is a
global synchronizer that connects every
single validator in the ecosystem. Every
validator runs its own version of a
subnetwork like Canton Canton network.
You could say a sub Canton network in
it. They're all isolated, privacy first,
you know, ecosystems within the Canton
network ecosystem. That's why we say we
are Canton networks is a network of
networks. So, there are so many
validators running a version of the
network, a slice of the overall ledger,
but at the same time to provide them the
atomicity across themselves, we have a
global synchronizer. The global
synchronizer sees absolutely nothing. It
gets encrypted, fully cryptographically
encrypted messages. All it does is
sequencing, ordering, and batching, and
overall BFT-based mechanism to make sure
that there is atomicity natively across
the validators. So, for example, if
someday bank A wants to work work with
bank B, who's all the way at Korea or
Japan, and bank A is in US, they can
work easily with each other on Canton
Network without any issue, thanks to the
global synchronizer. So, the
architecture is very different than what
you would look
if you compare to other blockchains out
there. We have a distinct comparison
with them, where we have a
validator-based ecosystem, where only
the parties
in each single smart contract sees
exactly your data, apart from the
parties not in your smart contract does
not see your data. It's a part of our
sub-transaction privacy smart contract
mechanism, where Canton Network is the
only blockchain to provide native
privacy on the smart contract level,
compared to the other blockchains out
there.
Now, let's talk about DAML. So, we
talked about a general overview of the
Canton Network, and I feel that would be
good.
So, DAML is very essential different if
you compare it with anything else. It
has multiple components. It is It does
not feel or look like your classic
like
Solidity or Rust, where you write like
loops and functions and classes and
assets. It is very different. It is a
very access-based smart contract
language. In DAML, you will see
something called as template. Template
is like this.
It's only a small part of the overall
network.
Template is just like a declared
function as you would
in a Solidity contract. Then you have
multiple accesses. So, if you want
somebody to only see your data or see
the changes in your smart contract
state, but do not alter it or write it
or change it, you put them as observers.
Then you have a signatory. Signatory is
the one who is the true owner who signs
everything. Every single transaction has
to be signed by the signatory in any
case scenario.
Then on Canton Network, what we have is
party.
So, instead of addresses on Ethereum
like ecosystem, we have parties. So, for
when you get a new wallet on Canton
Network, you get a party ID, not an
address. Party is your identification on
the ledger.
Then we have choice. Choice is like
defining
an action, an executable function in
your smart contract. For example, you
defined a token, let's say USDC, but
what is the function of USDC? Function
is to go from one person to another
person. The transfer of the coin is the
function. You would define it under a
choice.
So, this is a basic infrastructure like
overview in terms of like what are the
major concepts in the smart contract.
But let me show you a real breakdown.
So, before we go to write something
actual, I'll show you what it means to
have a smart contract in the first
place.
So, first, yeah, you would have
like an overview model declaration, like
module token where it's like when you
declare a module in the first place.
Then you have an example of a
controller, right?
Um since I cannot draw in this screen
for some random reason,
I'm just going to show you like this.
So, this here is an entire template.
Template is just definition of
something, right?
A template starts with defining a new
token. So, template of a token
with owner is a party. So, the owner of
a template, sorry, our owner of a token
has to be a person, right? So, if I
created Jatin USDC or Jatin USDC Jatin
as a new token, then I am the owner who
is a party. So, whenever you define an
individual in your smart contract, it is
go it does go by party.
Where here is you define the access, how
much access does this person in has. If
the person is owner, we want to give
them all the access in the world. So,
where signatory is the owner. So, as we
have seen before, signatory is the one
who has authority to do everything. So,
owner is a signatory, right? It tracks.
Then, we made a token of USDC Jatin.
But, I want the token to have an have a
function from from like transferring one
person to another to another. That's
what a token does. So, we declare a
choice called as transfer.
Then, you show the contract ID. Contract
ID is just name of your template, okay?
With you declare a new owner. So, if I
am sending
to somebody else, who is that person?
So, you are declaring that person inside
transfer because transfer is the one
which will enable to introduce this new
party. So, inside the choice, you have a
new person which is getting introduced
as the new owner who is getting my
token. For example, Jatin is sending
USDC Jatin to Dwight. So, Dwight is the
new owner who has a party. That's how we
declare it.
Controller is the owner. Now, a
controller inside a choice is is simply
an access what
other person exercise. So, whoever you
want this choice to be used by,
that person is the controller. So, if
somebody else wants to request money
from me, they're exercising this choice,
this transfer request, they're
requesting the transfer themselves. So,
they are the controller of the choice,
and they just basically becomes a new
owner when I transfer the token to them,
they become the owner. So, when you say
do,
do means you are basically just creating
a new contract and archiving the old
one. That means that this whole thing is
now going to be done
at all complete.
Now, you said create this with owner
equal to new owner. So, do create this
with owner equal to new owner means
now, do this whole thing,
convert the new owner into an owner,
and start it all. So, now the new owner
holds the token, so it becomes the
owner. That means now it has the
signatory access to give to somebody
else.
So, this is how a breakdown of a normal
DAML template looks like.
Now,
let just say
we look at a real example of a
multi-party
workflow. You would ask me, "How do we
define a template in the huge smart
contract or DAML contract about
specifically transfer or trade of a
certain asset?" Okay? Let just say we
are trading ETH, okay? Or CC, for
example. So, we are trading CC among
ourselves. How do we define that trade
in a template?
So, the template will start by, of
course, defining all the people
involved. Seller is a party because it's
an it's an individual. Buyer is a party.
Name of the assets.
Price of the asset because of course CC
has a price. So, if you're selling
something, it has to have a value. So,
you say buyer, seller, buyer, asset, and
the price of the asset. So, seller is
me, buyer is you. Like in this example,
just say Dwight is the buyer who has a
party.
Asset will be CC.
Price will be let's just say 0.16 or
something. For an example.
Now, we declared all the parameters of
what this template would look like.
Where signatory is the seller, and
observer is the buyer. Now, if I'm
selling something, I have to be agreeing
with you that hey, I agree with the
price. So, I'm going to sell you this.
So, I'm going to sign off to the trade.
So, I'm the signatory as the seller.
Now, this whole thing has to be seen by
Dwight, who is the other who is the
other person who's requesting as the
buyer of CC. So, they are an observer.
As we have learned, observer is the one
who can see, but cannot do change. So,
buyer is the observer who can see
transaction being happened. I am the one
who has to sign the transaction, and
then the whole thing continues.
Now, it is just
in theory. We have to make it real. So,
we define a new choice. Choice is to
accept. So, if even if I'm say I I am
just
transferring something to you, you have
to accept.
Yeah, I'm just sorry about that.
But, you have to accept the whole asset
from me. So, the choice here would be to
accept the new asset.
Contract ID is trade. Okay.
It would be trade proposal instead of
trade here.
So, controller is the buyer, right? So,
this particular choice is controlled by
the buyer. So, Dwight has to accept this
choice that they are the one who are
accepting. So, they are the one who are
like from controlling the choice, right?
Exercising the choice. So, controller is
the buyer and then again, do create
trade with seller buyer asset price.
Now, we are saying this is all done.
Now, it just create a new trade with
seller buyer asset and price. Simple as
that.
And this means that
seller creates a proposal, buyer sees
the proposal, decides to accept it or
not, okay? Once they accept it, trade
contract is created, both parties are
done, and the trade is done.
Hence, this is how we move forward.
So, this is how you learn Daml's privacy
model in the first place.
Each party sees the actions that they
have a taken. So, no if, for example, it
is me and Dwight who are defined as the
two parties here, but if there is
somebody else, let us say Anthony, who
is not defined as a party in the smart
contract, Anthony is neither an observer
like like a buyer or not even an owner
like me,
who is a seller, then Anthony has no
access to whatever we do. Our trade, our
smart contract, nothing. So, this is
called as the privacy at core at Canton
gives you using Daml, and this is known
as proof of stakeholders. So, that is
the whole point where party sees exactly
what they're allowed to see on Canton
network. Okay? Now,
so, signatory, observer, and dual lens.
Let us remove dual lens. We have
signatory and observer. Observer sees
the contract, but cannot do anything.
Signatory has full visibility and has to
sign it.
So, this is how the whole Canton network
like privacy model works.
Um I guess now we have learned enough
to actually write something.
So, so far and my screen is not sharing
currently. So far we have just seen on
how do we get started, what is the
architecture looks like, global
synchronizer,
multiple validators, okay?
After that we have seen
how Daml is different. We have seen what
Daml looks like. What is an observer,
signatory, signatory controller, choice
template.
We have seen a real example of a real
template of a trade.
And then we have seen the whole point of
this, which is providing privacy.
So, this is the first part of the
workshop where you have already seen and
learned everything about like Daml, its
concept, its terminologies in theory,
right? So, now we move ahead to the next
part, which is actually writing a new
concept. So, for that uh generally for
us on Canton network, things are a
little different. You are used to
deploying something on an RPC, but for
Canton network you deploy by using a
validator. So, now for all of you, you
don't need to set up a validator, okay?
Because it's at something of a big
hackathon and so for that we have
created a totally new um tool, which I'm
going to share with you the link of in
the chat is devnet.c4.io.
So, we would require in this hackathon
for all of you to deploy on devnet. So,
if you go to this link, I'm going to
show you what you find.
So, let us say
I'm going to share my screen again.
So, I'm just going to go here at
Seaboard.
So, here is what you would see as your
home screen. I think you can see my
screen. So, this is your home screen how
it will look like. You can log in using
Loop. You don't need an invite code to
use the Loop wallet when you are exactly
on this website. It automatically gets
created by using a Loop wallet, okay?
Now, when you come on this screen
Okay, here. So, now when you come on
this screen, you can go up here all the
way. You click here. You initially see
personal when you come in. But, when you
click here there is a new organization
called as Encode Hackathon. So, this is
the organization that the foundation has
created on this devnet.seaboard.io
for all the builders here to be deployed
on a devnet validator, which is already
pre-configured, okay?
Now, if you want to deploy this on
mainnet and testnet and make it a real
project, you have to deploy it on on
like maybe Encode's validator, for
example. So, Encode runs a validator for
mainnet, right? So, if you want to then
move ahead and then now you are ready to
deploy
>> [clears throat]
>> on the mainnet, then you can deploy on
the mainnet validator for Encode, you
know? And it is simple to just like
configure the whole thing. So,
for currently in this workshop, I'm
normally going to show you on devnet
because devnet is minimum bare bare
minimum you could say to submit a
project. At least you should have
something like on devnet. So, when you
come here
there is Encode Hackathon. You can't see
it because I need to add all of you to
this particular organization in the
first place, okay?
So, for that, you just need to give me
this particular party ID here on your
all the way top right. Just copy and
send it on Discord maybe where I can
support you or just add you into this uh
organization. But, what is the advantage
of adding into this organization, you
would ask. So, I would say it's it's
generally pretty simple.
The whole point would be
Look it. The whole point would be to
allow you to deploy on DevNet without
any hassle. Okay? Now, we will write our
first smart contract in DAML for this
workshop and see how to build and deploy
using Sea Port.
So, for us, either we directly upload a
DAR to a validator. So, if you already
have a project made up in your local and
compiled using DPM, you can just upload
your DAR.
If you have the whole thing into your
GitHub, you can connect your GitHub.
Or for us, we are just going to click on
a new blank contract. We will give give
it a name, so it will be easier for us
to make it a name. Let us say
So, we are going to write a simple token
smart contract. So, when you click on
simple token, it creates a new project.
It feels very like Remix IDE. Okay? I'm
also available on Discord if you need
any clarification on any of this
project. So, I am on Discord. You can
just tag me, and I think, yeah,
I would be there to help you out.
So,
let's get started. Now, we have a
DAML.yaml file. It is basically a file
that declares all the basic necessities.
You need to have this to actually deploy
something. Then, we have a new blank
file.
So, we are just going to rename it into
simple
token
.daml.
So, now, it as you can see, the logo is
changed. Now, it becomes a DAML file.
So, this is our terminal here. We will
just drag it a little bit down.
And we will start writing our first
smart contract in DAML. Okay?
So,
let's get started. So, when you write
your first smart contract in DAML, you
need to make sure that you define by
declaring a module.
So, when you So, when you start your
smart contract, you start by declaring
the module
name
with I mean, module must be declared and
then it must match the file name. Okay?
So, for example, if the name of the
module
here is
So, the name of the file is simple
token. We have to make sure the name of
the module is
simple token
as well. Okay?
Simple token where? So, this is the the
definition of a module declaration. So,
you have to declare the module in the
first place. Without declaring the
module, it won't be good. I mean, in
general, and it won't work. You will get
100 different types of error.
So, I can see there are people in the
chat who wants to collaborate.
Uh it would be good. So, uh yeah, Kevin
Dwight can send you the Discord link in
the chat.
And uh maybe Ben, you can use the
Discord to collaborate with people. And
uh
yeah, that would be good a good way to
go.
So, moving on,
now
we we start by declaring the name of the
module, which has to be again, I cannot
stress this enough, should be same as
the DAML file here. So, we declare the
module like this. Then we import
the library uh which makes the whole
thing run is known as DAML script.
So, now when you import uh not that, so
now you start by mak- making a module
name
and importing a module as Daml script.
Okay,
basically your Daml script library makes
this whole thing run in the first place.
So now everything is done to set up the
smart contract. Now we start the work.
Okay, so now to even before to define a
new token or what the token looks like,
you know, we need to create a new data
type. A data type is basically a class
that shows what a token should look
like, you know. It's It's like a a field
that just have like all the core
parameters of a token.
So I am just pasting it here.
It's pretty simple and straightforward.
I already have it defined
internally that I can just give you. I'm
dropping the same thing in chat.
This is pretty straightforward so it
should not help like be a major issue
here, but I'm just going to
data token info and equal to token with
symbol, for example, Canton token or CC.
Right? Quantity would be the decimal or
you could say
the
price would be the decimal like how many
units this contract represent. So I
would say quantity would be, for
example, we need to create a new
contract a new token
for this hackathon. I'm going to say
USDC.
End quote. Okay, how many tokens do we
want to make? So let us just say we want
to make
And I This is how you write comments in
Daml, by the way. So I'm just writing
comments. It is not a part of the code.
So we want to make
10,000 tokens maybe.
So 10,000 tokens would be good. We can
even write some other parameters like
value or you could say
price would be
decimal, be
what would be the price for this.
Example,
0.1
4.
USD, okay? It's an example. But what we
are essentially doing here is we are
basically defining a new data type that
exactly shows what the token looks like,
what is the parameter of a token, and
like a general definition of what are we
going to be using as the reference token
in the smart contract.
So now we move ahead. We declared the
first data type of a token, and
now now we know that the new data type
is declared. Now for the whole thing, we
just need to move ahead, and we now we
need to declare how it will look like as
a template. So template is basically
just the functions. So now we have a
token. Great. We have a token, and what
the token looks like is also done.
But I want to keep it simple, and let's
start not waste time, and let's start.
So now we declare a template. A template
in this particular sense and scenario,
it is basically just a functionality or
a function, more closer to that, that we
declare, okay?
So in our case, basically, a template is
basically a function in a bigger smart
contract. So many multiple templates
together creates a new like smart
contract in the first place.
So
we'll move ahead, and
Okay. So we are going to move ahead and
declare more templates here, which
defines the whole thing.
So So the template for this particular
token we have to start by simply just
declaring the token, you know, which is
like okay, so you have declared a new
class of token.
But what the token would look like?
Okay, so there is a token, but
who
is it for?
Or who is is it going to go to? For
example, if there is a token and you're
going to transfer the token to somebody
else, but then who is the owner of the
token, right? Like how would you define
this whole
workflow? Like
token goes from one person to the other
person, but how would you define that?
There should be a way to define that
whole mechanics into your DAML smart
contract.
So we start by a new template called as
let us say simple token itself.
So this particular template in your DAML
file, what it is doing is it is just
starting, it is kicking off the DAML
smart contract by declaring the most
bare minimum information, okay?
The the width here
in a template declares the contract's
parameters, you know, the fields of a
contract. So now when we say that it is
a simple token,
with
So we say template simple token with it
means that now we have a template named
simple token with
this many parameters. So what would be
the parameters of a token, right? So
when we say we have a token, we have
somebody who issued a token, then we
have somebody who is the owner of the
token, right?
Or maybe let us say the token needs a
symbol, for example, USDC and code needs
a symbol, let us say USTC
EN, okay? So this is a symbol plus
quantity plus val every single thing
that we defined in the data type, right?
So we need to have a token issuer, a
token owner. So, for example, the token
is issued by Encode to Jatin, who is the
owner of this token as well, or Anthony,
who is the owner of this token. And
then, that particular token needs all
its information, like the name of the
token, the symbol of the token, and
the quantity of how many tokens needs to
be created or minted, or what is the
price of a token, okay? So, let's do
that. We create a new parameter of
somebody who issues the token,
issuer, and that person has to be an
individual on the ledger. So, as we have
learned, it has to be
someone who
issues the token,
USDCEN
example,
Encode Club.
So, now the Encode Club issued a new
token, let's just say USDCEN, to
somebody else. For example, now this
token is given to Anthony as the owner,
who can decide the fate of this token.
Now, Anthony is a person on the ledger,
like an individual. So,
owner of this token,
USDCEN,
issued by
Encode Club, okay? So, now the issuer
and owner. And now, instead of declaring
all these three into one one one and
complicate this, why not we just say
token info
here. So, token info is basically, or
you could say
it should be it will be the same, so
let's just I'm going to write
info. So, the information of a token is
everything which is already declared in
the class. So, now you see what we are
doing, right? Instead of declaring this
whole thing every single time when you
do something with the token, we will
just reference information back to the
data class. So, instead of creating the
same thing over and over and over again,
we just created a class instead and
which we can reference again and again.
Right? And now
all info of USDC
e n
based on above
data class we made.
So, then this is how you start a new
template where we are declaring the
issuer, the owner, and we are instead of
declaring every single parameter again
and again and again, we are just
referencing the data class as this will
be then the information in the
parameter. So, the parameter has to be
there and that includes every single
piece of data class
that we have declared. Symbol, name,
quantity, value, all that.
Now comes the next part.
We have declared the template.
We have declared the parameters of the
template, like who can do what, but I'm
said like who is there in the first
place, but we now have to declare who
can do what, okay?
It is good in theory,
but now we have to do some action.
So, in action, we have to use the powers
of the terms that we have learned.
Signatory, observer, controller, and all
that. So, now we have to make sure that
uh we define the right access to the
right person. If a person gets less
access, they can't do the right thing
that necessity. If somebody gets more
access, they can do more harm.
So, we have to make sure that
we define the right access of the whole
thing, okay?
So, now we have to go back to the
definition of the overall token. The
overall token is issued by
N code. So, N code has to sign off to
the overall token because they have to
sign off that hey, we have issued the
token.
All good from our side.
But, the owner is also somebody who has
the power to say I'm giving it to
somebody else.
I'm good with giving it to somebody
else. So, they also have to sign off
whenever they are giving token to
somebody else. So, as you would see this
time it is a rare thing because now both
the parties has to be the owner of the
same I mean the whole token and signs
off.
So, what we declare is we know the term
for it.
It's signatory. So, now when we say
signatory, both
issuer and owner are now
the the signatory. That means they have
to sign off to the whole thing.
When we say that
we need your permission, your
authorization to do anything.
But, at the same time
an issuer has to see where the owner is
sending, okay? Here's the thing. So, for
example, in our smart contract
um
N code club gave the tokens to Anthony,
you know,
owner
example
Anthony
So, Anthony has the power to give token
to somebody else, but the issuer has to
see, right? Where my tokens are going,
who the token is being given to. So,
issuer has to see the change in the
overall state of the smart contract
whenever a new choice is exercised. So,
when there is a choice they transfer the
token from Anthony to Dwight, then N
code club as the issuer has to know that
there is a change in the overall state,
right? But this is optional. Okay, this
is totally optional. What we can do is
we can like
grant
the access. Now, even if you don't add
this, it won't do a harm, but again,
we can be like observer is the issuer,
okay? So, we can have the issuer as
observer, too, at some point or if there
is a new entity, for example,
let just say encode hired a new
regulator
for them
to oversee
the tokens
operation.
So, now this new
regulator is the observer. That means
the regulator will be quiet
and do not does anything like
won't do anything. Just see things
moving in in front to note everything
down.
And that is the classic definition of an
observer, right?
So, that's how we would add a regulator
into the whole equation in the first
place, okay? Now, there is one thing in
DAML which you should know, which is
known as
ensure.
Ensure is like a condition. So, in in
Solidity or Rust, you are like, I I can
add a condition which has to be met to
be able to move further in my
application.
So, if the condition is not met,
a person just aborts.
How do we do that in DAML? We do that by
using ensure. So, ensure
um
we have to ensure that overall
let just say, I cannot I should not send
you zero amount of token, right? That
should not be the case. So, let just say
we have to ensure that a person or the
owner is sending a new person at least
minimum one token. How do you ensure
that condition? So, we say ensure
info dot
So, now we say info dot We are have
referencing a particular The info is
basically this whole data type. Dot
means now you have to specifically
define what? So, we say
quantity
So, we have to define quantity info dot
quantity.
Right? So, we have to say that info dot
quantity, that means the quantity part
of the overall data type of the encode
token should be more than 0.00.
I mean, you can just write 0.0, but
again
cool, you know, 0.00 looks cool like
there should be minimum
but yeah.
So, that is how you you will you will
just see the whole thing as in sure that
this is going to be
more than 0.00 in at minimum, okay?
That is how we typically look at
defining a minimum condition that has to
be made.
Now,
a template is defined.
That is great. A template is just there.
But, what does this template do?
You're defining a particular token token
from a data type which is declared, but
what does this token do? Like will it do
any functionality at all?
Yeah, it does. It's actually going to
transfer from one person to another
person, okay?
And that is what we are going to do.
Now, we are going to make it alive. That
means you're going to add a
functionality of transferring from one
person, let us say the owner Anthony, to
a new owner who is asking for the token,
let us say Dwight, okay?
So, now we add a new choice here.
Choice would be to transfer from one
person to the another person. Let's just
say choice name is transfer.
Right? So, the name of the choice could
be anything that you would say you I
could say transfer
and code or I could say transfer
USDC
and but I'm just going to keeping it
simple for the sake of the workshop and
I'm just going to say choice transfer
contract ID equal to
the name of the We're just going to
copy-paste the name of the template.
So, now this is how you would declare a
choice in the first place, okay? Now
again, we write with because we need to
make sure that it comes with the right
parameters when you write a new
functionality, it has to have a
parameter, right?
So, we say choice would be with
new owner. So, now if
Anthony who is the
owner transfers some the the token to
somebody else, that then they become the
new owner of this, right? So, we declare
the new owner here because this new
owner only exist.
So, now the question is why don't we do
declare this new owner here? I know you
some of you might have that question,
but the thing is new owner only exist if
you transfers the token to somebody
else. Without that choice, this new
owner does not exist. That's why that
has to be defined under the choice or it
is ideal to have this under the choice,
okay?
Um new owner
would be a party because again, for the
obvious reasons, new owner has to be a
party.
My bad. Yeah, my bad. It has to be a
capital one. So, yeah, make sure that it
is capital when you write party.
I just noticed it.
So, if it is not in blue, that's a
problem. Okay.
So, the new owner has to be, let's just
say like this. Okay, the new owner is a
party on the ledger. That means it is a
new person on the ledger.
Now,
we will say controller.
Again, based on what we have learned so
far, we have to make sure that
controller is the one who wants the
money, right? Who wants you to transfer.
So, who needs to exercise this choice is
the controller. So, the controller is
the one
So, currently, in this particular use
case,
we have two parties right now, issuer
and owner. Issuer is the encode club.
Owner is the is Anthony. Regulator won't
do anything. Regulator is just an
observer, so it becomes out of the
window. Two people with the authority to
do transfer,
owner
and the issuer. In this case,
owner has to tell the issuer that I'm
transferring the token and I have to
transfer from one person to another
person, from me to that particular
person. So, they have to exercise the
chart transfer of the choice. Okay, so
out of these two, as I say, the one
opposite to the higher party becomes the
controller. Okay? That is like a cheat
code I would use.
So, controller would be the owner.
So, owner is the the lower party
compared to the both parties available,
who needs to make sure that they're
exercising the choice of transfer to
somebody random out there.
So, in this case, the controller becomes
the owner.
And lastly,
do.
Do
create.
So, now it comes to this. Okay?
Now, create this with
new owner
equal to
owner. So, what it does is now
this whole thing is done. So, do
the whole smart contract
convert this, create this, make it done.
Create this. Again, now it will restart
the whole thing as new owner would be
the owner, okay? Or I would say the
better way based on what we see is now
the owner
is equal to new owner. That means and
the new owner is now the owner. So, if I
own all of my tokens is with Dwight, so
now Dwight is the owner of the tokens,
has to ask the permission and then just
going to sign off. So, you see how this
all works, right? You just go around and
around and around. The template goes
back to the power to the person who
holds the token. And that is how you
define your first template, you define
your first choice, you define the whole
thing, okay?
But
let just say
you want Okay, let us just let us do
something more. Okay, let us just do
something more.
And now here is the thing.
We have We have 15 minutes. So, I'm
going to make it like add another
um choice here. Would be fun to do that.
I just think thought of it is burn.
So, let us just say that um
contract ID
the same as simple token. Copy paste it
here.
Okay. So, imagine Or you know what? It
is just It does not require the It does
not require the parameters. You just
burn it. So, we will just write it as
choice as burn. I guess that would be
good because it needs to go with all.
So, when you when you write like a
singleton
uh choice that affects whole, affects
everything, you can just say choice
semicolon and the bracket. It's just
like It affects the whole thing up,
okay?
So, now
um
when you are going to write like
Okay, you have to understand that how
would we write semicolon, okay? So, here
is semicolon under bracket choice burn.
Compared to contract ID, okay? So, when
you write contract ID or something, you
have to make sure that that choice
returns a value, okay? So, when your
choice is returning a value in in Daml,
you write the contract ID as simple
token template or this is the token,
this is the template or choice or
whatever, but if your choice, when you
exercise it, does not return any value
at all, we say the bracket sign, okay?
The choice burn bracket. So, what we are
doing is essentially now
the controller becomes the owner for
obvious reasons that we already know.
So, controller is the owner. So, for
example, owner decides to just burn some
amount of token, okay? So, what we will
do is they will just do burn.
Do.
So, now do does the whole thing
return
absolutely nothing, you know? I mean,
nothing is creating. It's It's like
you're archiving the whole thing up.
You're burning the whole thing up. So,
nobody gets anything. Nothing gets
returned in the first place. So, when
you say this, you are basically writing
a new burn contract in the first place,
okay?
So, that is how you would define the
whole thing. And I think we are pretty
much done and we are at the end of the
line. So, we defined a template with two
choices of transfer and burn. We learned
how to define a choice
which returns something
aka
it has an
output.
Then we've learned
how to
define a choice that has no output.
Okay? So, that is how you would define
the whole smart contract in the first
place.
So, this is how
a general mindset looks like. Honestly,
it is very easy when compared to
Solidity or Rust and all that structure,
where you're writing most of your time
in your head how would this look like on
paper, but instead on Daml you write
everything in your head and you compile
it into a real code saying that this is
how it would look like. This is the
access control
like language. This is more like a type
language, you know, like Haskell, if you
would. So, this is more relatable to
that. We have wrote our first Daml
contract. We save it.
The file is saved.
All we need to do on CPort is to go up,
build the project. So, now the project
is getting built.
There might be a few issues here.
So, the build is failed because of
Okay, so there is no multi-package file
yet, so you need to create a
multi-package file because you have
multiple parties involved.
But, I can just quickly give you a peek
at here.
Let us go down.
We go to intro data.
It already has a multi-package file
created.
See, so when we have multiple modules
like this,
I'm just going to show you how quickly
it happens.
You build the contract.
Um okay, I guess there is some issue
with the CPort, but uh I'm just going to
ignore it.
Currently,
anyways, yeah. The whole point of us
would be to actually start writing our
your first Tamil smart contract. After
the workshop, I can send you a link to a
dedicated video I have created for
foundation on how to deploy and build on
Cport, which
basically teaches you how to do that.
But, I guess that would be helpful for
you to start deploying on Cport. When
you click on deploy, you select the DAR
file. So, when you build something, you
already it becomes a DAR file that you
need to upload on the validator. It
appears here. You select that. You go to
the validator. You either select this
validator, okay?
Which is the one that we have configured
for you on Devnet, so that at least all
of you can deploy on Devnet in the first
place. But, if you have access to the
Encode hackathons or like Encode's
validator, you can even go to settings
and add your own validator. You can just
go here. You can go to personal.
You can upload DAR.
Or you can just go here.
Wait a minute. Save validator settings.
New configuration. You can You can add
the Encode validator here if you want to
deploy on the Encode Devnet validator.
In any case, I feel like deploying on
validator should be an easy work. But,
if you have any issues with that, just
tag me, and I'm always there to help you
out on Discord. Okay? Um this is
basically a walk-through of how you
would write your first smart contract in
Daml.
And yep, that's that's basically the the
the perfect flow of how you would do
think and write in the first place. And
for the Cport, uh the video will be here
after the workshop. That would be
everything that we had for the workshop.
Any doubt, um you can ask the Encode
Club team. If not, you can just tag me
in the Discord. I'm there
um on the Discord as well.
Thank you so much, right.
>> Wow, lovely. Thanks, uh Jatin. What a
really useful session today. Uh so, hope
uh that gave everyone a clear technical
picture of the stack and how to build on
it. Uh remember the next up we have the
Canton ecosystem overview which is going
to be on Monday the 23rd
at 2:00 p.m.
And don't forget to create a project,
add your team add add your team, and
share the progress
by Sunday the 21st of June. Okay, so
this Sunday coming up. After that the
mid-hackathon point uh checkpoint will
be on Sunday the 28th of June as well.
Uh so quick keep questions coming the
Discord and on the platform page. In
regards to the Discord one of the team
uh will be in touch with you guys
tomorrow sending over the Discord link.
Okay, so thank you very much and I'll
see you guys soon.